Task 1: Setting Up Multichain on Windows
Step 1.1: Download and Install Multichain
1. Download Multichain from the official website: Multichain Download.
o Select the Windows installer and follow the prompts to install Multichain on your
system.

Step 1.2: Configure Environment Variables
2. Add Multichain executables (multichaind, multichain-cli, and multichain-util) to
your system’s PATH to access them from the command line:
o Open Control Panel -> System and Security -> System -> Advanced System
Settings.
o In the System Properties window, click Environment Variables.
o Under System Variables, locate Path, select it, and click Edit.
o Add the directory where the Multichain executables are installed (e.g.,
C:\Program Files\Multichain).

Now you can use Multichain commands from the Windows command prompt or
PowerShell.
Step 1.3: Create a New Blockchain
3. Open the command prompt and create a new blockchain called blockchain1:

multichain-util create blockchain1
4. Start the blockchain:

multichaind blockchain1 -daemon
5. Open a node on your system to connect to the blockchain:

multichaind blockchain1

Task 2: Permissions Management
Step 2.1: Grant Node Permissions
1. Grant other nodes permissions to connect, send, and receive assets. This is useful when
simulating multiple organizations or nodes:

multichain-cli blockchain1 grant [address] connect,send,receive
2. To view all granted permissions:

multichain-cli blockchain1 listpermissions

Task 3: Asset Creation and Management
Step 3.1: Create a New Asset
1. Create a new asset called "Silver" and issue 1000 units:

multichain-cli blockchain1 issue [address] "Silver" 1000
Step 3.2: Check Asset Balances
2. Check the balance of all assets for a specific address:

multichain-cli blockchain1 getaddressbalances [address]

Task 4: Transferring Assets
Step 4.1: Transfer Assets Between Nodes
1. Transfer 100 units of "Silver" from one node to another:

multichain-cli blockchain1 sendassettoaddress [recipient-address]
"Silver" 100
Step 4.2: Verify the Transfer
2. Verify the transfer by checking the recipient node's balance:

multichain-cli blockchain1 getaddressbalances [recipient-address]

Task 5: Recording and Accessing Data Using Streams
Step 5.1: Create a Stream
1. Create a new stream to record transaction data:

multichain-cli blockchain1 create stream stream1 true
Step 5.2: Publish Data to Stream
2. Publish transaction data to the stream:

multichain-cli blockchain1 publish stream1 key1 "{\"transaction\":
\"txid1\", \"asset\": \"Silver\"}"
Step 5.3: Retrieve Data from Stream
3. Retrieve data from the stream using the key:

multichain-cli blockchain1 liststreamkeyitems stream1 key1